>> Woodruff: SEARCH CREWS
IN THE INDIAN OCEAN FAILED TODAY
TO PICK UP MORE UNDERWATER PINGS
FROM A MALAYSIAN JETLINER, ONE
MONTH AFTER IT DISAPPEARED.
OFFICIALS ACKNOWLEDGED TIME IS
SHORT, SINCE LOCATOR BEACONS ON
THE TWO BLACK BOX RECORDERS WERE
DESIGNED TO TRANSMIT JUST A
MONTH, BEFORE THEIR BATTERIES
DIE.
IN PERTH, AUSTRALIA, DEFENSE
MINISTER DAVID JOHNSTON
SAID IT'S A HERCULEAN TASK.
>> THIS IS DAY 32.
A LOT ARE CONCERNED THAT WE HAVE
AT LEAST SEVERAL DAYS OF INTENSE
ACTION AHEAD OF US.
THE WEATHER OUT THERE TODAY IS
REASONABLE, AND, SO, YOU CAN BE
ASSURED THAT WE ARE THROWING
EVERYTHING AT THIS DIFFICULT,
COMPLEX TASK IN AT LEAST THESE
NEXT SEVERAL DAYS WHILE WE
BELIEVE THE PINGERS ARE STILL
ACTIVE.
>> Woodruff: AN AUSTRALIAN SHIP
TOWING A U.S. NAVY DEEPWATER
SOUND DETECTOR PICKED UP PINGS
ON SATURDAY AND SUNDAY.
THEY WERE CONSISTENT WITH THE
SORT THE BLACK BOXES WOULD EMIT.
CREWS DIGGING THROUGH THE
MUDSLIDE IN WASHINGTON STATE
HAVE FOUND A 34TH BODY.
OFFICIALS ALSO SAID ABOUT A
DOZEN PEOPLE ARE STILL LISTED
AS MISSING.
AND THE WHITE HOUSE ANNOUNCED
THAT PRESIDENT OBAMA WILL VISIT
THE SITE ON APRIL 22ND, AND MEET
WITH VICTIMS' FAMILIES,
SURVIVORS AND RECOVERY WORKERS.
U.S. DEFENSE SECRETARY CHUCK
HAGEL GOT AN EARFUL IN CHINA
TODAY, OVER TERRITORIAL DISPUTES
WITH JAPAN AND THE PHILIPPINES.
THE CHINESE DEFENSE MINISTER
WARNED HIS GOVERNMENT IS READY
TO USE FORCE, IF NEEDED, TO
DEFEND ISLANDS IT CLAIMS.
HAGEL TOOK PART IN AN HONOR
CORDON WITH HIS CHINESE
COUNTERPART, AND HELD A TWO-HOUR
LONG MEETING.
AFTERWARD, HE SAID THE U.S. WILL
PROTECT IT'S ALLIES, AND HE
WARNED AGAINST MISCALCULATIONS.
>> EVERY NATION HAS A RIGHT TO
ESTABLISH AIR DEFENSE ZONES, BUT
NOT A RIGHT TO DO IT
UNILATERALLY WITH NO
COLLABORATION, NO CONSULTATION.
THAT ADDS TO TENSIONS,
MISUNDERSTANDINGS AND COULD
EVENTUALLY ADD TO AND EVENTUALLY
GET TO DANGEROUS CONFLICT.
>> Woodruff: HAGEL WAS IN JAPAN
EARLIER THIS WEEK, WHERE HE
REASSURED IT'S LEADERS OF ON-
GOING U.S. SUPPORT.
IN VIENNA, TALKS ON CURBING
IRAN'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM RESUMED
TODAY, WITH THE FOCUS TURNING TO
CONCRETE STEPS IRAN WOULD
HAVE TO TAKE.
THE U.S. AND FIVE OTHER WORLD
POWERS ARE OFFERING TO
REMOVE ECONOMIC SANCTIONS IF A
LONG-TERM DEAL CAN BE REACHED.
JULY IS THE INFORMAL DEADLINE
FOR AN AGREEMENT.
ON WALL STREET, STOCKS BROKE A
THREE-DAY LOSING STREAK.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED TEN POINTS TO CLOSE AT
16,256.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 33 POINTS TO
CLOSE JUST SHY OF 4,113.
AND THE S-AND-P 500 ADDED NEARLY
SEVEN, AND FINISHED NEAR 1,852.
>> Woodruff: STILL TO COME
ON THE NEWSHOUR:
>> Woodruff: THERE WAS MORE
UNREST IN UKRAINE TODAY AS THE
GOVERNMENT PUSHED BACK AT
PRO-RUSSIAN SUPPORTERS IN THE
COUNTRY'S EAST.
BUT AS CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER
REPORTS, THE DEMONSTRATORS STILL
HOLD CONTROL OF GOVERNMENT
BUILDINGS IN TWO KEY CITIES.
>> Warner: RIOT POLICE
SURROUNDED THE REGIONAL
GOVERNMENT HEADQUARTERS IN
KHARKIV TODAY AFTER UKRAINIAN
SECURITY FORCES LATE LAST NIGHT
OUSTED SCORES OF PRO-RUSSIAN
SEPARATISTS.
THE PROTESTERS, WHO DECLARED THE
THAT EASTERN REGION'S
INDEPENDENCE YESTERDAY, WERE
TAKEN INTO CUSTODY.
UKRAINE'S INTERIOR MINISTER WAS
IN CHARGE.
>> ( translated ): AROUND 70
PEOPLE WERE DETAINED, WEAPONS
WERE TAKEN AND FIRE WAS
EXTINGUISHED.
RIGHT NOW THE CITY
ADMINISTRATION BUILDING IS UNDER
CONTROL.
>> Warner: BUT ARMED SEPARATISTS
REMAIN ENTRENCHED AT THE
REGIONAL GOVERNMENT BUILDING IN
DONETSK, ALSO IN THE EAST.
WHERE THE GOVERNOR TOLD US ON
OUR VISIT THREE WEEKS AGO THAT
HE THOUGHT HE HAD THE SITUATION
IN HAND.
>> ( translated ): WHEN I
ARRIVED, THIS BUILDING WAS
BLOCKED AND THE RUSSIAN FLAG WAS
FLYING ON THE ROOF.
TODAY THE SITUATION IS QUITE
DIFFERENT.
>> Warner: BUT LAST WEEKEND,
PRO-RUSSIAN PROTESTERS STORMED
THE BUILDING, BARRICADED IT WITH
TIRES AND BARBED WIRE,
AND VOWED TO STAY UNTIL A VOTE
IS HELD ON SEPARATING FROM
UKRAINE TO JOIN RUSSIA, JUST AS
CRIMEA DID A MONTH AGO.
>> ( translated ): WE ARE HERE
FOR THE SAKE OF OUR FAMILIES,
FOR OUR SALARIES, FOR OUR
HEALTH, FOR ALL THOSE PEOPLE WHO
HAVE ALREADY SHED THEIR BLOOD.
WE WILL NOT LEAVE THIS PLA
UNTIL WE WILL MAKE THE
REFERENDUM HAPPEN.
>> RUSSIA!
RUSSIA!
>> Warner: A SIMILAR WEEKEND
SCENE PLAYED OUT AT THE STATE
SECURITY BUILDING IN LUHANSK.
AUTHORITIES SAID PROTESTERS
WIRED THE BUILDING WITH
EXPLOSIVES AND ARE HOLDING SOME
60 HOSTAGES, A CLAIM THE
DEMONSTRATORS DENIED.
THE UNREST IN THE EAST ALSO
STOKED TENSIONS AT UKRAINE'S
PARLIAMENT.
A FISTFIGHT BROKE OUT AFTER THE
HEAD OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY
BLAMED UKRAINIAN NATIONALISTS
FOR PROVOKING RUSSIA.
AT A SENATE HEARING IN
WASHINGTON TODAY, SECRETARY OF
STATE JOHN KERRY LAID THE BLAME
FOR THE UNREST SQUARELY ON
MOSCOW.
>> RUSSIA'S CLEAR AND
UNMISTAKABLE INVOLVEMENT IN
DESTABILIZING AND ENGAGING IN
SEPARATIST ACTIVITIES IN THE
EAST OF UKRAINE IS MORE THAN
DEEPLY DISTURBING.
NO ONE SHOULD BE FOOLED-- AND
BELIEVE ME, NO ONE IS FOOLED BY
WHAT COULD POTENTIALLY BE A
CONTRIVED PRETEXT FOR MILITARY
INTERVENTION JUST AS WE SAW IN
CRIMEA.
IT IS CLEAR THAT RUSSIAN SPECIAL
IND THE CHAOS OFS HAVE BEEN THE
THE LAST 24 HOURS.
>> Warner: IN MOSCOW, RUSSIAN
FOREIGN MINISTER SERGEI LAVROV
FLATLY REJECTED THE ALLEGATION.
>> ( translated ): OUR AMERICAN
PARTNERS ARE PROBABLY TRYING TO
ANALYZE THE SITUATION, ATTACHING
THEIR OWN HABITS TO OTHERS.
WE ARE DEEPLY CONVINCED, AND
NOBODY HAS SO FAR CHALLENGED
THIS CONVICTION, THAT THE
SITUATION CANNOT BE CALMED DOWN
AND CHANGED INTO NATIONAL
DIALOGUE IF THE UKRAINIAN
AUTHORITIES GO ON IGNORING THE
INTERESTS OF THE SOUTHEASTERN
REGIONS OF THE COUNTRY.
>> Warner: MEANWHILE, TENS OF
THOUSANDS OF RUSSIAN TROOPS
REMAIN MASSED JUST ACROSS
UKRAINE'S EASTERN BORDER.
THAT BROUGHT A NEW WARNING FROM
N.A.T.O. SECRETARY-GENERAL
ANDERS FOGH RASMUSSEN, AGAINST
FURTHER RUSSIAN INCURSION INTO
UKRAINE.
>> IT WOULD BE AN HISTORIC
MISTAKE.
IT WOULD HAVE GRAVE CONSEQUENCES
FOR OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH RUSSIA
AND IT WOULD FURTHER ISOLATE
RUSSIA INTERNATIONALLY.
>> Warner: THERE ARE PLANS
UNDERWAY FOR DIPLOMATS FROM
RUSSIA, UKRAINE, THE U.S., AND
THRO
ON THE CRISIS, BUT NO DATE HAS
BEEN SET.
>> Woodruff: AND MARGARET
JOINS ME NOW.
HOW MUCH OF AN ESCALATION IS
THIS ON THE PART OF THESE
PRO-RUSSIAN ELEMENTS?
>> A PRETTY SERIOUS ONE.
RIGHT AFTER CRIMEA, YOU HAD A
FLURRY OF LOOKALIKES TAKING OVER
PARLIAMENT IN THE EASTERN
REGIONS.
BUT THEY WERE QUICKLY BEATEN
BACK, NEW GOVERNORS APPOINTED
AND BROUGHT IN FORCES.
THEY LEFT PEACEFULLY, NO BLOOD
WAS SHED.
DEMONSTRATIONS IN THE PLAZAS.
THIS WEEKEND WAS DIFFERENT.
GANGS CAME IN, STORMED THE
BUILDINGS, THERE ARE SUSPICIONS
THAT THE POLICE KIND OF LET THEM
DO IT.
AND THEN AT LEAST IN DONETSK, I
TALKED TO A COUPLE OF CHIEF
AIDES OF THE GOVERNOR TODAY SAID
NOW ARMED PEOPLE ARE CONTROL IN
THE VERY BUILDING WHERE HE AND I
HAD SPOKEN AND SAID THEY'VE
TRASHED THE BUILDING, STEAL
COMPUTERS, TRASHED COMPARTS,
STEEL PERSONAL EFFECTS.
IN ONE BUILDING THEY'RE HOLDING
PEOPLE HOSTAGE.
SO IT IS A QUALITY THAT'S MORE
VIOLENT, AND THEY ARE ARMED.
THIS ONE FELLOW SAID, UKRAINE
DOESN'T HAVE ANY ARMED COUNTRIES
SO THEY MUST BE GETTING THESE
GUNS FROM CRIMINAL GANGS OR
ACROSS THE BORDER, AND THE
THEORY IS THAT PUTIN HAS BEEN
SOMEWHAT STYMIED AT THE BORDER
IN TERMS OF MOVING TROOPS IN SO
HE'S CREATING A PRETEXT FROM
WITHIN THAT WOULD ALLOW HIM TO
COME IN AS SECRETARY KERRY SAID
AND SAY, WELL, I'M HERE TO SAVE
THE RUSSIAN SPEAKERS OF EASTERN
UKRAINE.
>> Woodruff: WE SEE THE
UKRAINIAN GOVERNOR TOOK BACK THE
ADMINISTRATIVBUILDING IN
KHARKIV, BUT HOW IS THE
GOVERNMENT HANDLING THIS?
>> THE GOVERNORS ARE LETTING
KIEV DO IT.
BEFORE WHERE THEY DIDN'T GIVE A
LOT OF ASSISTANCE, THIS TIME
THEY DEPLOYED FORCES, THEIR
SECRET SERVICE INTO EASTERN
UKRAINE, AND THE THROW
OFFICIALS, THE MINISTER
IN MY PIECE AND TWO OTHER TOP
ONES, EACH ONE WENT TO ONE OF
THESE REGIONS AND THEY ARE
RUNNING THE OPERATIONS.
THE GAME PLAN IS, ONE, TO
IDENTIFY THE UNITS THEY THINK
THEY CAN TRUST BECAUSE,
REMEMBER, THE DONETSK REGION IS
WHERE YANUKOVICH, THE FORMER
PRESIDENT WHO FLED, DESPITE THAT
HE HAS DEEP TENTACLES, A
MULTIBILLIONAIRE OLIGARCH IN ALL
THE SECURITY SERVICES, SO THEY
FEEL THEY NEED KIEV'S HELP TO DO
THIS AND I THINK YOU WILL TRY TO
SEE THEM TAKE BACK EACH ONE OF
THESE BUILDINGS.
BUT IT IS VERY DELICATE BECAUSE
IF THEY DO IT WITH ANY BLOODSHED
THAT, TOO, CREATES A PRETEXT.
>> Woodruff: THIS COMES WHILE
THE UKRAINIAN GOVERNMENT TRYING
TO GET THE COUNTRY BACK ON TRACK
ECONOMICALLY AND OTHER WAYS,
THIS HAS TO BE DAMAGING.
>> DEFINITELY.
THEY SAY IT ISN'T DAMAGING, THE
GOVERNOR WASN'T IN THE BUILDING
AT THE TIME, HE'S NOW IN ANOTHER
BUILDING CONTROLLED BY KIEV AND
DOING HIS WORK.
HOWEVER, THE MOST TELLING
ANECDOTE I HEARD -- YOU KNOW, AS
YOU KNOW, THE GOVERNMENT IN
KIEV, AS YOU SAID, TRYING TO GET
THE I.N.S. IN PLACE, GET AN
INFUSION OF FOREIGN, WESTERN
CAPITAL TO DO INFRASTRUCTURE
PROJECTS AND A LOT OF THINGS
THIS REGION IN PARTICULAR NEEDS.
SO THE GOVERNOR WAS HOSTING,
THIS WEEKEND, A MAJOR POLISH
OFFICIAL AND SOUTH KOREAN
OFFICIAL TO TALK ABOUT
INVESTMENTS THEY CAN MAKE, A
PLAN IN DONETSK.
THEN THIS ERUPTS.
SO IT DEFINITELY DOESN'T SEND
THE RIGHT MESSAGE AND MAKES IT
HARDER FOR THEM TO STAY ON THAT
TRACK, NOT TO MENTION TO GETO
THE ELECTIONS MAY 25 WHICH IS
ANOTHER IMPORTANT POLITICAL
MILESTONE.
>> Woodruff: WHOSE TURN IS IT
TO MOVE NEXT AND WHAT DO PEOPLE
EXPECT?
>> I THINK IT IS THE SECURITY
FORCES TURN TO MAKE FURTHER
MOVES.
WHAT THEY WILL TRY TO DO IS
THEY'RE OFFERING NEGOTIATIONS,
THEY'RE GOING TO TRY TO THINGS
LIKE TURN OFF THE WATER AND
ELECTRICITY TO A COUPLE OF
BUILDINGS, TRY TO PERSUADE THEM
TO LEAVE BUT LOOKING FOR
OPPORTUNITIES TO DO IN THESE
OTHER TWO PLACES WHAT THEY DID
IN KHARKIV.
THE FEAR IS THAT ONE PERSON
SAID, YOU KNOW, WE MAY BE FACING
TERROM.
I SAID, WHAT DO YOU MEAN?
HE SAID, YOU REMEMBER PUTIN
STAINED A TERRORIST ATTACK IN
RUSSIA AS A PRETEXT FOR STARTING
THE SECOND CHECHEN NOW
THAT THERE'S MORE VIOLENCE AND
WEAPONS, WE ARE VERY WORRIED
SOMETHING LIKE THAT COULD ERUPT.
>> Woodruff: VERY QUICKLY,
MARGARET, WHAT ABOUT THE
INTERNATIONAL RESPONSE?
WHAT ARE OTHER COUNTRIES AND
ORGANIZATIONS SAYING?
>> SECRETARY KERRY PUSHED BACK
AT THE HEARING TODAY WHEN
SENATOR McCAIN SAID YOU SHOULD
BE ARMING THE UKRAINE MILITARY
AND THE U.S. IS PUTTING MONEY ON
HELPING KIEV MAKE AN ECONOMIC
TRANSITION.
UKRAINIANS FEEL THEIR FUTURE
LIES WITH THE WEST.
THERE IS LOGISTICAL AND SOME
INTELLIGENCE HELP BEING GIVEN.
BUT THE UKRAINIAN MILITARY
FORCES ARE TO A GREAT DEGREE ON
THEIR OWN.
THE BIG HOPE IS TO HAVE AT LEAST
THIS MEETING WHICH I REFERRED TO
AT THE END OF THE PIECE WHERE
FINALLY THE RUSSIANS WOULD SIT
N KRAINIANS WHICH
THEY WON'T ADMIT IS A LEGIT
GOVERNMENT.
I GOT AN EMAIL THREE MINUTES AGO
SAYING THAT ACTUALLY IS GOING TO
HAPPEN NEXT WEEK.
>> Woodruff: YOU WERE JUST
THERE AND NOW THINGS ARE MOVING
VERY FAST.
>> VERY FAST.
>> Woodruff: YET AGAIN.
MARGARET, THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA AND
CONGRESSIONAL DEMOCRATS LAUNCHED
A COORDINATED EFFORT TODAY TO
DRAW ATTENTION TO WOMEN'S WAGES.
REPUBLICANS ON CAPITOL HILL SAID
THE PUSH HAD LITTLE TO DO WITH
POLICY AND EVERYTHING TO DO WITH
POLITICS.
>> Woodruff: WOMEN IN THE
WORKFORCE, AND HOW MUCH THEY
EARN, WERE THE FOCUS AT THE
WHITE HOUSE ON THIS EQUAL PAY
DAY.
>> IT'S NICE TO HAVE A DAY, BUT
IT'S EVEN BETTER TO HAVE EQUAL
PAY.
>> Woodruff: THE PRESIDENT WAS
JOINED BY ADVOCATES, INCLUDING
LILLY LEDBETTER, FAMOUS FOR HER
LAWSUIT THAT LED TO PAY-EQUITY
LEGISLATION, THE FIRST BILL MR.
OBAMA SIGNED AFTER TAKING
OFFICE.
TODAY, HE TOOK TWO EXECUTIVE
ACTIONS, AIMED AT FEDERAL
CONTRACTORS.
ONE BARS COMPANIES FROM
RETALIATING AGAINST WORKERS WHO
DISCUSS THEIR PAY WITH EACH
OTHER.
THE OTHER REQUIRES COMPENSATION
DATA BROKEN DOWN BY RACE AND
GENDER.
CENSUS DATA SHOWS WOMEN MAKE 77%
OF WHAT MEN MAKE, AND EQUAL PAY
DAY MARKS THE DATE WHEN THE
AVERAGE WOMAN'S EARNINGS FINALLY
EQUAL A MAN'S TOTAL EARNINGS FOR
THE PREVIOUS YEAR.
THE PRESIDENT CHALLENGED
REPUBLICANS TO SUPPORT A SENATE
BILL THAT WOULD MAKE IT EASIER
FOR WORKERS TO SUE OVER PAY
DISCRIMINATION.
>> IF REPUBLICANS IN CONGRESS
WANT TO PROVE ME WRONG, IF THEY
WANT TO SHOW THAT THEY IN FACT
DO CARE ABOUT WOMEN BEING PAIDT.
>> Warner: IN THE SENATE,
DEMOCRATS, LED BY MARYLAND'S
BARBARA MIKULSKI, JOINED IN
TO RATCHET UP THE
PRESSURE.
>> WE WANT THE SAME PAY FOR THE
SAME JOB.
AND WE WANT IT IN OUR LAWBOOKS
AND WE WANT IT IN OUR
CHECKBOOKS.
>> Warner: REPUBLICANS ACCUSED
THE PRESIDENT AND DEMOCRATS OF
USING THE PAY ISSUE PURELY FOR
POLITICAL GAIN.
CATHY MCMORRIS RODGERS
REPRESENTS A DISTRICT IN
WASHINGTON STATE.
>> ON THIS EQUAL PAY DAY, LET'S
STOP POLITICIZING WOMEN AND
FOCUS ON THE POLICIES THAT ARE
GOING TO EMPOWER WOMEN AND
CREATE A HIGHER PAYCHECK, MORE
OPPORTUNITIES, AND THAT
OPPORTUNITY FOR A BETTER LIFE.
>> Warner: HOUSE MAJORITY LEADER
ERIC CANTOR, SAID BOTH SIDES
SHT EXISTING
LAWS.
>> IT'S PROBABLY BETTER FOR US
TO SIT DOWN AND SEE THAT THE LAW
IS BEING PROPERLY IMPLEMENTED,
RATHER THAN PLAY POLITICS.
>> Warner: THE POLITICAL VOLLEYS
UNDERSCORE THE KEY ROLE OF WOMEN
VOTERS IN ELECTIONS.
MR. OBAMA WON WOMEN BY DOUBLE
DIGITS IN THE 2008 AND 2012
PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGNS.
AS DID DEMOCRATS IN THE 2006
MID-TERMS, WHEN THEY CAPTURED
MAJORITIES IN BOTH THE HOUSE AND
SENATE.
BUT REPUBLICANS NARROWLY WON
WOMEN IN 2010 WHEN THEY TOOK
BACK CONTROL OF THE HOUSE.
NOW, DEMOCRATS ARE HOPING EQUAL
PAY WILL TURN OUT WOMEN IN THEIR
FAVOR, AND HELP FEND OFF A
REPUBLICAN BID TO WIN THE
SENATE.
THE PAYCHECK FAIRNESS BILL FACES
A PROCEDURAL VOTE IN THE SENATE
TOMORROW.
>> Woodruff: WE EXPLORE THE
BROADER ISSUES RAISED BY THIS
POLITICAL FIGHT WITH:
GENEVIEVE WOOD, A SENIOR
CONTRIBUTOR TO THE FOUNDRY, A
NEWS AND COMMENTARY SITE
AFFILIATED WITH THE HERITAGE
FOUNDATION.
AND ARIANE HEGEWISCH, THE STUDY
DIRECTOR AT THE INSTITUTE FOR
WOMEN'S POLICY RESEARCH.
WE WELCOME YOU BOTH TO THE
"NewsHour".
IANE HEGEWISCH, DO YOU FIRST,
HOW SERIOUS IS THE GAP IN WAGES
BETWEEN MEN AND WOMEN TODAY IN
THIS COUNTRY?
>> IT'S PRETTY SERIOUS.
W
OMEN WHO WORK FULL TIME,
YEAR-ROUND, THE MOST COMMITTED
WORKERS ONLY MAKE 77 CENTS ON
AVERAGE FOR EVERY DOLLAR MADE BY
A MAN, SO IF YOU ACCUMULATE THAT
OVER A YEAR, OVER A LIFETIME, IT
MAKES FOR A LOT OF LESS MONEY
AND LESS MONEY TO PAY FOR
PENSIONS AND TO BUY CARS AND
INVEST IN YOUR FAMILY, SO IT'S A
BIG ISSUE.
>> Woodruff: GENEVIEVE, DO YOU
AGREE IT'S A SERIOUS GAP?
>> WELL, I THINK THE PROBLEM IS
THE WAY PEOPLE CALCULATE THE
NUMBERS, JUDY.
LOOK, IF YOU COMPARE APPLES TO
APPLES, A WOMAN AND A MAN IN THE
SAME JOB, THEY BRING SIMILAR
EXPERIENCE TO THE TABLE, THEY
BRING SIMILAR SKILLS AND
EDUCATION BACKGROUND TO THE
TABLE, WHEN YOU LOOK AT IT THAT
WAY, THE WAGE GAP ALL BUT
DISAPPEARS.
AS A MATTER OF FACT, THAT'S EVEN
ACCORDING TO THE DEPARTMENT OF
LABOR WHO DID A STUDY ON THIS.
WHERE YOU GET THE LARGER
DISCREPANCY HEN YOU COMBINE
ALL JOBS.
SO A HIGH SCHOOL TEACH WHO ARE,
LET'S SAY, IS A WOMAN WITH MANY
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS WHO HAPPEN
TO BE MEN WHO MAKE MORE MONEY,
WHEN YOU LOOK AT IT THAT WAY,
LOOKS LIKE MEN ARE MAKING MORE.
BUT THE YOU COMPARE A FEMALE
MEMBER OF CONGRESS TO A MALE
MEMBER OF CONGRESS, THEY'RE
MAKING THE SAME AMOUNT OF MONEY,
AND I THINK IT'S REALLY
IMPORTANT TO LOOK AT THAT
BECAUSE I'M A WOMAN, I THINK
WOMEN SHOULD MAKE EQUAL TO WHAT
MEN SHOULD MAKE IF WE'RE DOING
THE SAME JOB AND BRINGING THE
SAME TO THE TABLE, BUT I THINK
IT'S VERY DISCOURAGING AND A
DISSERVICE TO YOUNG WOMEN WHO
ARE ENTERING TO THE WORKFORCE
NOW TO SAY TO THEM, YOU NEED TO
BE NERVOUS ABOUT THIS.
YOU NEED NOT HAVE CONFIDENCE TO
WALK IN TO A NEW JOB AND ASR
A RAISE IF YOU THINK YOU DESERVE
ONE AND I THINK THAAT THIS
POLITICAL RHETORIC DOES, A
DISSERVICE TO YOUNG WOMEN AS TO
POSED TO TELLING THEM, WE'VE
MADE GREAT STRIDES, GO FOR IT,
YOU CAN MAKE THE SAME.
>> Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT THIS
POINT, ARIANE HEGEWISCH, WHAT
ABOUT THIS POINT, MEN AND WOMEN
ARE EARNING THE SAME THING DOING
THE SAME JOB, IT'S JUST THAT
WOMEN HAPPEN TO OCCUPY
LOWER-PAYING JOB.
>> IN CONGRESS, MALE AND FEMALE
REPRESENTATIVES DO MAKE THE SAME
MONEY.
WE JUST ANALYZED THE 20 MOST
COMMON OCCUPATIONS, AND IN NONE
OF THEM DO WOMEN MAKE THE SAME
AS MEN.
YOU KNOW, THERE'S A PAY GAP IN
EACH OF THEM.
AND IF YOU TAKE SOMETHING LIKE
FINANCIAL ADVISORS, WOMEN HAVE
THE SAME TRAINING, SAME
QUALIFICATIONS, BUT THEY MAKE
LESS BECAUSE THERE IS
DISCRIMINATION IN WHO GETS
ACCESS TO THE BEST JOBS.
>> Woodruff: DISCRIMINATION.
IT'S DISCRIMINATION.
>> Woodruff: GENEVIEVE, WHAT
ABOUT THAT?
>> YOU HAVE TO LOOK AT THE LABOR
DEPARTMENT STUDY ON.
THIS THEY DID THAT VERY THING.
THEY LOOKED AT MEN AND WOMEN IN
THE SAME PROFESSIONS WITH
SIMILAR YEARS IN THE WORKFORCE,
SIMILAR BACKGROUNDS, AND SAID
THE WAGE GAP BASICALLY
DISAPPEARS ANYWHERE FROM 96
CENTS TO A MAN MAKING A DOLLAR
UP TO 98 CENTS.
SO THERE'S 2 C NEED TO
MAKE UP.
BUT MEN AND WOMEN MAKE DIFFERENT
CHOICES.
GEORGETOWN DID AN INTERESTING
STUDY, THEY LOOKED AT WHAT
MAJORS GUYS CHOOSE WHEN THEY GO
TO COLLEGE AND WHAT MAJORS WOMEN
CHOOSE.
MEN TEND TO OUTNUMBER WOMEN IN
THE TOP TEN WAGE EARNERS, ENDING
UP MAKING THE MOST WHEN THEY GET
OUT OF COLLEGE.
WOMEN OUTNUMBER MEN IN THE
BOTTOM SET.
IF YOU WANT TO MAKE A LOT OF
MONEY, BE A PETROLEUM ENGINEER.
THOSE WHO MAJOR IN VISUAL ARTS
MAKE LESS.
THAT'S A CHOICE PEOPLE MAKE.
>> ARIANE HEGEWISCH, IS IT ALL
ABOUT THE CHOICES WOMEN ARE
MAKING?
THEY'RE NOT CHOOSING TO GO INTO
THE MORE LUCRATIVE JOBS?
>> I THIT AN ISSUE OF
WOMEN BEING MORE LIKELY TO WORK.
THE QUESTION IS WHETHER THIS IS
CHOICE OR WHETHER IT'S THE WAY
JOBS ARE.
WE NEED TEACHERS, AND TO SAY A
TEACHER OUGHT TO BE PAID -- YOU
KNOW, ALL TEACHERS HAVE TO
BECOME ENGINEERS OR I.T.
PROFESSIONALS WOULD BE RUE TON
OUR ECONOMY BECAUSE WE NEED
TEACHERS AND TEACHERS NEED TO BE
THE SECOND ISSUE IS HOW MUCH --
WE JUST DID A STUDY ON WOMEN
WORKING BLUE-COLLAR JOBS, AND A
LOT OF THOSE ARE ELECTRICIANS,
YOU KNOW, CARPENTERS, THEY PAY
VERY WELL, AND YOU DON'T HAVE TO
PAY FOR YOUR EDUCATION BECAUSE
IT'S APPRENTICESHIP.
NOT ONE OF THE WOMEN WE
INTERVIEWED HAD BEEN TOLD ABOUT
THIS PROSPECT BYCOUNSELORS IN
SCHOOLS, YOU KNOW, IT WAS ALL
HAPPENSTANCE, AND THEN A LOT OF
THEM FACE DISCRIMINATION.
AND THERE ARE SOME CASES OF
PETROLEUM ENGINEERS, AND YOU
DON'T WANT TO LOOK AT WHAT
HAPPENED TO THE WOMEN WHO DO
THAT.
IT'S NOT QUITE AS EASY.
>> I WAS GOING TO SAY MAYBE WE
SHOULD PAY TEACHERS WHAT WE PAY
CONGRESSMEN AND REVERSE IT OUT.
BUT ONE THING WE SHOULD LOOK AT
IS IF YOU LOOK AT YOUNG WOMEN
TODAY IN METROPOLITAN CITIES,
SINGLE, CHILDLESS, THEY ARE
ACTUALLY MAKING 8% MORE THAN
THEIR MALE COUNTERPARTS IN THOSE
PLACES.
SO I THINK THERE'S A LOT OF GOOD
NEWS, AND I THINK WE SHOULD TALK
ABOUT THAT, AND WE SHOULD NOT
DISTORT THE NUMBERS, WHICH I
THINK THE WHITE HOUSE IS DOING
AND, JUDY, I THINK YOUR PIECE
SET IT UP.
IT'S A POLITICAL YEAR.
THEY WANT WOMEN TO THINK THERE'S
A WAR GOING ON AGAINST THEM.THEG
PRETTY WELL.
>> Woodruff: SOUNDS LIKE
THERE'S GOING TO BE A
DISAGREEMENT ABOUT HOW SERIOUS
THE GAP IS, BUT JUST IN THE
LITTLE BIT OF TIME WE HAVE LEFT,
ARIANE HEGEWISCH, WHAT NEEDS TO
BE DONE?
CONTRACTORS SAY THEY NEED TO
DISCLOSE HOW MUCH THEY'RE PAYING
WHETHER, WOMEN ARE EARNING THE
SAME AS MEN IN GOVERNMENT
CONTRACTS, AND YOU'RE SAYING
THERE NEEDS TO BE AN EVEN
PLAYING FIELD.
>> EXACTLY.
IF THERE'S TRANSPARENCY AND
SOCIAL SCIENCE RESEARCH TO SHOW
IT, IF THERE'S TRANSPARENCY, THE
GENDER WAGE GAP DISAPPEARS.
THERE MIGHT BE SOME WOMEN WHO
ARE BETTER THAN MEN AND SOME MEN
BETTER THAN WOMEN BUT THEY GET
PAID MORE BUT YOU NEED OBJECTIVE
CRITERIA.
>> Woodruff: GENEVIEVE, WHAT
ABOUT THE NOTION OF DISCLOSING
HOW MUCH EVERYONE IS PAID,
WHETHER A GOVERNMENT CONTRACTOR
OR SOMEONE ELSE WHICH WOULD
REQUIRE CONGRESSIONAL
LEGISLATION?
>> WELL, I DON'T THINK WE OUGHT
TO BE FORCING PRIVATE INDUSTRY
TO DO SUCH A THING, BUT THE FACT
IS, WITH ALL THESE THINGS,D
INTENTIONS OF WHAT SOUNDS GOOD,
YOU'VE GOT TO LOOK AT THE
REPERCUSSIONS OF THIS, AND I
THINK WE SHOULD BE VERY
CONCERNED THAT IF WE HAVE
WASHINGTON, THE GOVERNMENT
TELLING EMPLOYERS, HERE'S WHAT
YOU'VE GOT TO PAY PEOPLE.
PEOPLE NEED DIFFERENT JOBS, THE
SAME AMOUNT.
WHAT YOU'RE GOING TO DO IS
ACTUALLY END UP HAVING EMPLOYERS
SAY, YOU KNOW WHAT?
IF I'VE GOT TO PAY EVERYONE THE
SAME WAGES TO COME DOWN,
PERFORMANCE PAY AND BONUSES GO
OUT THE WINDOW, THAT'S BAD FOR
WOMEN AND MEN.
>> WELL, EMPLOYERS HAVE HAD TO
DO THIS FOR A LONG TIME.
THEY HAVE TO MONITOR THEIR PAY
AND THEY'RE NOT ALLOWED TO
DISCRIMINATE, AND
PERFORMANCE-RELATED PAY HASN'T
DISAPPEARED MORE PAY DEFERENCESE
DISCRIMINATION TO DISAPPEAR.
THERE'S ONE MORE POINT, IT'S NOT
A WAR ON WOMEN.
WOMEN ARE REALLY ANGRY ABOUT
DISCRIMINATION.
IT'S AN ISSUE THAT WOMEN BRING
TO THE GOVERNMENT AND THEY'RE
TRYING TO DO SOMETHING ABOUT IT.
>> Woodruff: WE ARE GOING TO
LEAVE IT THERE.
WE THANK YOU BOTH FOR BEING WITH
US, GENEVIEVE WOOD AND ARIANE
HEGEWISCH.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: SEVERAL COUNTRIES
IN WEST AFRICA ARE NOW COPING
WITH THE WORST OUTBREAK OF THE
EBOLA VIRUS IN YEARS.
THE WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION
DESCRIBES IT AS ONE OF THE MOST
CHALLENGING EPISODES OF THE
DISEASE IT'S EVER FACED.
MORE THAN 100 PEOPLE HAVE DIED
SO FAR.
EBOLA, WHICH IS SPREAD BY A
VIRUS INITIALLY TRANSMITTED FROM
WILD ANIMALS, HAS A HIGH
FATALITY RATE.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS MORE ON THE
STRUGGLE TO CONTAIN IT.
>> Brown: ONE OF THE CONCERNS IS
THAT EBOLA HAS CROSSED BORDERS.
GUINEA IS WHERE THE OUTBREAK
BEGAN AND WAS FIRST MADE PUBLIC
IN MARCH.
MORE THAN 100 DEATHS AND 150
CASES HAVE BEEN REPORTED THERE.
ANOTHER TROUBLING ASPECT: THE
DISEASE HAS TURNED UP IN A WIDE
AREA.
FROM TROPICAL FORESTS TO THE
CAPITAL OF CONARKY TO THE
LIBERIAN BORDER.
IN LIBERIA, INVESTIGATORS
BELIEVE THERE ARE AT LEAST 10
DEATHS.
HEALTH OFFICIALS ARE NOW
INVESTIGATING POSSIBLE CASES IN
BOTH IN MALI AND GHANA.
MORE THAN 60% OF INFECTED PEOPLE
HAVE DIED.
LAURIE GARRETT OF THE COUNCIL OF
FOREIGN RELATIONS HAS TRACKED
OUTBREAKS IN THE PAST AS A
JOURNALIST AND AUTHOR OF SEVERAL
BOOKS ON GLOBAL HEALTH AND
DISEASE.
SHE JOINS US NOW.
LORI, WELCOME BACK TO THE
PROGRAM.
FIRST, REMIND US A BIT ABOUT
WHAT EBOLA IS AND EXACTLY HOW
IT'S TRANSMITTED.
>> THANK YOU.
YEAH, EBOLA IS AN RNA VIRUS, A
VERY SMALL VIRUS THAT ATTACKS
THE ENDOTHELIAL LININGS THAT
MAINTAIN THE BLOOD VEINS,
CAPILLARIES.
FIRST, A MICROSCOPIC HOLES
THROUGH WHICH BLOOD AND FLUIDS
LEAK UNTIL THEY'RE LARGER AND
LARGER HOLES TILL THE INDIVIDUAL
HEMORRHAGES INTERNALLY, AND
HEMORRHAGING BLOOD THROUGH
TEARS, THE MOUTH, THE NOSE, ALL
OVER THE BODY SO THEY BECOME
QUITE FRIGHTENING TO SEE, AND
INDIVIDUALS WILL GET A HIGH
FEVER.
THEY MAY GET BLOOD IN THE BRAIN
WHICH WILL LEAD TO EVEN MORE
INSANE BEHAVIOR, A KIND OF
DERANGED LOOK IN THEIR EYES, ALL
OF WHICH CONTRIBUTES TO A GREAT
DEAL OF FEAR.
ON TOP OF IT ALL, THE FLUIDS
CONTAIN VIRUS, SO THEY'RE
HIGHLY, HIGHLY CONTAGIOUS TO THE
TOUCH.
>> Brown: SO IN THE CURRENT
SITUATION, WE'RE SEEING IT
SPREADING INTO SEVERAL
COUNTRIES.
THAT'S UNUSUAL, RIGHT?
>> WE'VE NEVER SEEN THIS BEFORE.
AND AS NSF PUT IT CORRECTLY,
THIS IS UNPRECEDENTED.
WE'VE HAD OUTBREAKS BEFORE BUT
THEY'VE ALWAYS STAYED WITHIN A
COUNTRY AND EVEN WITHIN A PRETTY
CONFINED PART OF THE COUNTRY.
THE OUTBREAK, I WAS IN ZAIRE IN
1995, IT ONLY GOT TO A FEW
PERIPHERAL VILLAGES, A LARGE
DISTANCE BUT WALKING DISTANCE.
THERE WERE NO WAYS TO GET AROUND
OTHER THAN WALKING AND LAND
ROVERS.
NO STREETS, NO ROADS, NO REAL
AIRPORTS, AND SO ON.
THIS IS DIFFERENT BECAUSE THIS
IS A REAL CITY WITH A REAL
AIRPORT, SENEGAL IS NEXT DOOR,
HAS ONE OF THE BIGGEST AIRPORTS
IN ALL OF WEST AFRICA.
IT HAS CROSSED BORDERS, INVOLVED
MULTIPLE GOVERNMENTS, MULTIPLE
SETS OF POLICIES.
IT'S IN ALL DIFFERENT KINDS OF
RELIGIOUS COMMUNITIES, CULTURAL
COMMUNITIES, DIFFERENT
LANGUAGES, ALL OF WHICH MAKES
CONQUERING IT MUCH MORE
DIFFICULT BECAUSE YOUR NUMBER
ONE OBSTACLE WITH EBOLA IS FEAR
AND HOW THE PUBLIC RESPONDS.
>> Brown: BUT AT THE SAME
TIME, HEALTH OFFICIALS HAVE
SAID, THEY'RE REPORTING THEY'VE
TRACED THE SOURCES OF
TRANSMISSION FOR EVERYONE WHO'S
SICK.
NOW, THAT SOUNDS LIKE A GOOD
SIGN FOR TRYING TO CONTAIN THIS.
>> COULD BE.
COULD BE.
BUT THERE ARE SOME FUNDAMENTAL
MYSTERIES HERE.
SOMETHING'S GOING ON IN THE RAIN
FOREST BECAUSE WHAT THESE
COUNTRIES SHARE IS A SPECIAL
ECOLOGY, A SPECIAL RAIN FOREST
REGION IN WHICH THE BATS THAT
NORMALLY CARRY THE VIRUS TO THE
BAT POPULATION BUT WITH PASS IT
TO OTHER PRIMATES WHICH CAN BE
EATEN BY HUMANS OR TO PEOPLE,
HUNTERS WHO MAY BE IN THE RAIN
FORESTS.
IT'S POSSIBLE WE'RE GETTING
MULTIPLE INTRODUCTIONS, OR AT
LEAST MORE THAN ONE, ACROSS THE
REGION.
SO IF SOMETHING'S OUT IN THE
RAIN FOREST WHICH IS WHY THE
BATS ARE STRESSED AND PASSING
THE VIRUS, THEN WE'LL SEE
MULTIPLE ROUNDS OF
REINTRODUCTION.
BUT THE BOTTOM LINE IS TO
EXTRACT INDIVIDUALS FROM THEIR
HOMES, PUT THEM IN QUARANTINE,
GIVE THEM SAFE AND, YOU KNOW,
HUMANE CARE, AND MAKE SURE THAT
ALL THE CAREGIVERS HAVE PROPER
PROTECTIVE GEAR.
>> Brown: AND ALL THAT HASN'T
REALLY CHANGED ALL THAT MUCH
SINCE EBOLA WAS FIRST FOUND IN
1976, RIGHT?
I MEAN, IN TERMS OF WHAT CAN BE
DONE ONCE AN OUTBREAK BEGINS?
>> WE UNDERSTAND IT A LITTLE
BETTER, BUT WE DON'T HAVE ANY
DIFFERENT TECHNOLOGY TODAY THAN
WE'VE HAD ALL ALONG SINCE WE'VE
KNOWN OF THE EBOLA VIRUS IN
1976.
IT'S ALL AND HAND WASHING, LATEX
GLOVES, PROTECTIVE GEAR, MASKS
AND A KIND OF INFECTION CONTROL.
>> Brown: ON THE ONE HAND THE
W.H.O. IS SAYING WE'RE GETTING A
HANDLE ON THIS BUT THEY'RE ALSO
SAYING IT MAY TAKE MONTHS TO
DEAL WITH.
WHAT DOES THAT TELL YOU?
>> WELL, IT TELLS ME THAT WE
HAVE A REAL PROBLEM BECAUSE IT'S
SO DISPERSED.
IT'S ACROSS A BROAD, BROAD
TERRITORY.
MULTIPLE DIFFERENT ECOLOGIES,
DIFFERENT CULTURES AND, LET'S
NOT FORGET, THIS IS A REGION
THAT HAS RECENTLY BEEN THROUGH
CIVIL WARS -- LIBERIA, MAHLI,
ONGOING CONFLICT.
THERE ARE A LOT OF NERVES,
PEOPLE ARE RAW, THERE'S
SUSPICIOUS AND COUNTERSUSPICIOUS
IN POPULATIONS FOR OR AGAINST
GOVERNMENT, SO TRYING TO CONQUER
A PROBLEM LIKE THIS MEANS
OVERCOMING A LOT OF LARGER
POLITICAL ISSUES THAT HAVE BEEN
IN THE REGION A LONG TIME.
>> Brown: LOWE LORI GARRETT, THS
SO MUCH.
>> Woodruff: NEXT, AMERICANS ARE
BEING RELEASED FROM HOSPITALS
QUICKER, AND SICKER.
THAT'S PUT NEW DEMANDS ON THE
FAMILY MEMBERS WHO CARE FOR
THEM.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT KATHLEEN
McCLEERY REPORTS FROM OKLAHOMA
AS PART OF OUR "TAKING CARE"
SERIES.
>> MAKE SURE WE GET ALL OF THE
AIR OUT.
>> Reporter: CHERYL MITCHEM
NEVER IMAGINED RETIREMENT WOULD
LOOK LIKE THIS.
WHEN SHE AND HER HUSBAND ALPHUS
STOPPED WORKING, THEY PLANNED
TRAVEL AND OTHER ADVENTURES.
THEN, A YEAR AGO, A SEVERE
HEADACHE AND A DIAGNOSIS OF A
MALIGNANT BRAIN TUMOR UPENDED
THE FAMILY'S DREAMS.
>> GLIOBLASTOMA, WHICH IS A FORM
OF MALIGNANT BRAIN CANCER, BUT
IREALL OVER THE WHOLE
BRAIN, ITS NOT CONFINED TO ONE
AREA.
>> Reporter: THEIR 37 YEAR OLD
DAUGHTER KRISTIN LEFT HER JOB AS
A PASTRY CHEF IN NORTH CAROLINA
TO COME HOME TO OKLAHOMA CITY TO
HELP.
>> YOU WANT ME TO GET YOU
SOMETHING TO EAT?
>> YOU SPEND YOUR WHOLE LIFE
KIND OF IN THE CARE OF YOUR
PARENTS, AND NOW THAT ROLE HAS
CHANGED, WHERE IM KIND OF, YOU
KNOW, PROVIDING CARE, MAKING
SURE THAT HE HAS EVERYTHING HE
NEEDS.
>> Reporter: CHERYL AND KRISTIN
ARE AMONG THE 42 MILLION
AMERICANS CARING FOR LOVED ONES
AT HOME.
AND THE TASKS THEY PERFORM HAVE
BECOME INCREASINGLY COMPLEX.
CLEANING A FEEDING TUBE, FOR
INSTANCE, CAPPING A CATHETER
LINE, CHECKING BLOOD SUGAR,
ADMINISTERING AN INJECTION, AND
MANAGING MULTIPLE PRESCRIPTIONS.
>> WHEN WE HAVE TO FLUSH HIS
PICC LINE, OR CLEAN HIS PEG
TUBE, OR TAKE HIS BLOOD GLUCOSE,
OR HIS BLOOD PRESSURE, YOU KNOW,
NONE OF US WENT TO SCHOOL FOR
THAT, I MEAN WERE NOT EDUCATED
THAT WAY.
WHAT I LEARNED WAS BY WATCHING
THE NURSES.
I WAS NEVER INSTRUCTED HOW TO DO
ANYTHING, THEY NEVER DID
DEMONSTRATIONS, HAD ME TRY
ANYTHING.
I DON'T FEEL LIKE I HAD ENOUGH
TRAINING AT ALL FOR THIS.
WE KIND OF LEARNED BY TRIAL AND
ERROR.
>> Reporter: FAMILY MEMBERS DO
90% OF CARE-GIVING AND NEARLY
HALF PERFORM CHORES ONCE LIMITED
TO TRAINED NURSES.
THAT'S ACCORDING TO AN A.A.R.P.
SAMPLING OF MORE THAN 1,600
CAREGIVERS NATIONWIDE.
>> HEY, MOM.
DID YOU TAKE YOUR MEDICINE?
>> Reporter: THAT TREND HAS
PROMPTED THE ORGANIZATION TO
FOCUS ATTENTION ON CAREGIVERS
AND PUSH STATE LEGISLATORS TO
PASS WHAT THEY CALL THE CARE
ACT.
>> Reporter: OKLAHOMA STATE
DIRECTOR SEAN VOSKUHL IS URGING
MEMBERS TO SUPPORT IT.
>> SO A.A.R.P. HAS BEEN TAKING A
HARD LOOK AND MAKING THIS A
PRIORITY, BUT WE ALSO THOUGHT IT
WAS IMPORTANT TO TAKE A PUBLIC
POLICY APPROACH, AND GIVING A
LEGAL DESIGNATION OF A FAMILY
CAREGIVER IN THAT PROCESS,
BECAUSE WE FIND SO MANY FOLKS
THAT ARE BURDENED, OVERWHELMED,
AND THEY WANT TO KNOW WHAT DO I
DO, WHERE DO I GO FOR HELP?
>> Reporter: THE BILL WOULD
REQUIRE THE HOSPITALS TO LIST
THE CAREGIVER ON THE PATIENTS
CHART TO NOTIFY HIM OR HER
BEFORE THE PATIENT IS
DISCHARGED, AND TO MANDATE
TRAINING FOR THE SKILLS THEY'LL
NEED WHEN THE PATIENT COMES
HOME.
IN OKLAHOMA, ITS SPONSOR, STATE
SENATOR BRIAN CRAIN, UNDERSTANDS
THE TOLL CARE-GIVING CAN TAKE.
>> MY MOTHER, THE LAST FIVE
YEARS OF HER LIFE, SUFFERED FROM
ALZHEIMERS, AND I KNOW
FIRSTHAND, AS WELL AS THE REST
OF MY FAMILY, THE LONG GOODBYE
THAT IS ALZHEIMERS.
MY FATHER, THOUGH, SERVED AS HER
CAREGIVER.
>> Reporter: THE CARE ACT PASSED
THE STATE SENATE IN FEBRUARY AND
IS BEING CONSIDERED IN THE
HOUSE.
>> WE RECOGNIZE, AS A STATE,
THAT EVERYONE NEEDS TO HAVE A
CAREGIVER IF THEY WANT ONE, AND
THAT CAREGIVER NEEDS TO HAVE
SOME UNDERSTANDING OF WHEN
YOU'RE GOING TO BE RELEASED FROM
THE HOSPITAL, AND WHAT IT IS
THAT THE HOSPITAL THINKS NEEDS
TO BE DONE, SO THAT YOU ARE NOT
RE-ADMITTED UNNECESSARILY.
>> Reporter: OKLAHOMA LAWMAKERS
AREN'T ALONE IN THEIR QUEST TO
SUPPORT FAMILY CAREGIVERS.
HAWAII, ILLINOIS AND NEW JERSEY
ARE ALL CONSIDERING THEIR OWN
VERSIONS.
HERE AND ELSEWHERE, THE
OPPOSITION COMES MAINLY FROM
THOSE WHO WILL HAVE TO ABIDE BY
NEW RULES.
>> WE JUST DO NOT FEEL LIKE THIS
IS A NECESSARY PIECE OF
LEGISLATION
>> Reporter: LAWANNA HALSTEAD IS
A VICE PRESIDENT FOR THE
OKLAHOMA HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION.
SHE'S ALSO A REGISTERED NURSE.
AND SHE ARGUES HOSPITALS ALREADY
FOLLOW STRICT GUIDELINES,
INCLUDING MEDICARE REGULATIONS,
THAT REQUIRE A SMOOTH TRANSITION
WHEN PATIENTS ARE RELEASED.
>> THERE IS A MULTI-PAGE CHAPTER
ABOUT DISCHARGE PLANNING.
IF YOU ARE GOING TO PARTICIPATE
WITH MEDICARE, MEANING YOU'RE
GOING TO RECEIVE MEDICARE
FUNDING FOR TAKING CARE OF
PATIENTS, THEN YOU HAVE TO
FOLLOW THESE CONDITIONS.
HOSPITALS PUT IN PLACE MULTIPLE
THINGS, SUCH AS CALLING THE
PATIENTS TWENTY FOUR HOURS, AND
FORTY EIGHT HOURS AFTER THEIR
DISCHARGED TO ASK THEM IF THEY
HAVE ANY FURTHER QUESTIONS, DID
YOU IN FACT GET YOUR
PRESCRIPTIONS FILLED, DO YOU
REMEMBER THAT YOU HAVE THIS
PHYSICIAN VISIT, DO YOU REMEMBER
WHAT YOUR PHYSICAL ACTIVITY IS,
AND WHAT YOUR DIET IS?
>> Reporter: A SAMPLING OF 400
LIKELY VOTERS IN JANUARY SHOWED
STRONG SUPPORT IN OKLAHOMA FOR
CAREGIVERS AND THE NEW
LEGISLATION.
FOR POLLSTER BILL SHAPARD, THE
ISSUE HIT HOME JUST BEFORE HIS
DATA CAME IN.
>> MY FATHER FELL AND HAD A
SEVERE CONCUSSION, AND I THINK
WHAT WAS IMPACTFUL FOR ME WAS
THAT I GOT TO SEE BEYOND JUST
WHAT I'M ASKING OKLAHOMA VOTERS
TO CONSIDER THROUGH POLLING, I
GOT TO LIVE IT.
>> Reporter: HIS MOTHER, VEDA
SHAPARD, FACED A FLURRY OF
CONFUSING INFORMATION WHEN HER
HUSBAND WAS READY TO COME HOME.
>> LEAVING THE HOSPITAL WAS A
BIT OF A CHALLENGE.
I LIKE TO THINK OF MYSELF AS
SOMEBODY THAT'S DETAIL ORIENTED,
BUT THE NURSE CAME IN AND HAD
ALL OF THE DISCHARGE PAPERS,
THERE WAS 22 PAGES OF
INFORMATION FOR ME.
SO, IT WAS SO PRETTY INTENSE
MOMENTS THERE FOR A WHILE
BECAUSE YOU DIDN'T KNOW WHAT TO
DO.
>> AND ITS A LITTLE
OVERWHELMING.
>> Reporter: AT ST. ANTHO
HOSPITAL, DR. ROBERT RADER
COORDINATES A PATIENTS STAY FROM
ADMISSION TO DISCHARGE.
HE SAYS HIS STAFF DOES A GOOD
JOB INSTRUCTING CAREGIVERS, BUT
HE WORRIES ABOUT THE POSSIBLE
IMPACT OF NEW REGULATIONS.
>> HOSPITALS ARE GETTING MORE
AND MORE CRUNCHED FOR RESOURCES
AND SO I'M AFRAID THAT PATIENT
CARE MIGHT SUFFER AS WE BEGIN TO
FRAGMENT THINGS, TRYING TO CHECK
BOXES ON ANOTHER FORM THAT WE
HAVE TO CHECK, I REALLY THINK WE
NEED TO NOT BE DISTRACTED FROM
THE CARE THAT'S BEING TAKEN TO
THE PATIENT.
>> Reporter: NOT GETTING THE
RIGHT CARE IS ONE REASON SOME
PATIENTS RETURN TO THE HOSPITAL.
58% OF OKLAHOMA HOSPITALS WERE
PENALIZED BY MEDICARE AND
MEDICAID FOR EXCESSIVE RE-
ADMISSIONS, THAT'S ABOUT AVERAGE
NATIONALLY.
THE BILLS BACKERS HOPE TRAINING
CAREGIVERS WILL HELP REDUCE
THOSE MULTIPLE STAYS.
THE MITCHEMS SAY THEY'VE ALREADY
MADE SERIOUS MISTAKES THAT
LANDED ALPHUS BACK IN THE
HOSPITAL.
>> THERE HAVE BEEN SOME
INSTANCES WITH ONE OF THE
MEDICATIONS THAT WE GAVE HIM,
THERE WERE CERTAIN SIDE EFFECTS
THAT WE NEEDED TO BE LOOKING OUT
FOR, AND WE WEREN'T TOLD THAT WE
NEEDED TO LOOK FOR THOSE THINGS,
AND SO HE HAD LIKE, A REACTION
TO ONE OF THOSE MEDICATIONS, AND
I FELT REALLY BAD BECAUSE THE
MORNING THAT WE TOOK HIM BACK TO
THE EMERGENCY ROOM, IT WAS MY
MORNING TO GIVE THAT MEDICATION,
AND I DID.
>> Reporter: BUT REPRESENTATIVE
DOUG COX, AN EMERGENCY ROOM
DOCTOR HIMSELF, HAS RESERVATIONS
ABOUT WHETHER LEGISLATION WILL
MAKE A DIFFERENCE.
>> I'M NOT SURE THAT WE NEED TO
PUT ANOTHER MANDATE ON THE
HOSPITALS WHEN THEY'RE KIND OF
MOVING IN THAT DIRECTION,
ANYWAY.
AS YOU KNOW, MEDICARE AND NOW
EVEN PRIVATE INSURANCE COMPANIES
ARE HOLDING HOSPITALS LIABLE FOR
PATIENTS THAT ARE RE-ADMITTED
WITHIN A CLOSE TIME OF
DISCHARGE, AND SO HOSPITALS ARE
BEING EVEN MORE DILIGENT ABOUT
TEACHING HOME CARE AT TIME OF
DISMISSAL, TO TRY TO PREVENT
THOSE RE-ADMISSIONS.
>> Reporter: FAMILY CAREGIVERS
DON'T GET PAID BUT THE
CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE PUT
A PRICE TAG ON ALL THOSE
CONTRIBUTIONS, WORTH $234
BILLION TO THE U.S. ECONOMY IN
2011.
THOSE JOBS MAY HAVE TO BE DONE
BY PAID WORKERS IN THE DECADES
AHEAD.
AS THE BABY BOOMERS AGE, THEY'LL
MOVE FROM PROVIDING CARE TO
NEEDING IT.
AND BECAUSE THE NEXT GENERATION
IS SMALLER, THE DEMAND FOR, AND
ON, FAMILY CAREGIVERS IS SURE TO
>> Woodruff: HOW MANY HOURS A
WEEK DOES THE TYPICAL LONG-TERM
CAREGIVER DONATE TO A SICK
PARENT OR SPOUSE?
WE HAVE A BY-THE-NUMBERS
BREAKDOWN ON WHAT KIND OF IMPACT
THIS CAN HAVE ON THEIR FINANCES.
THAT'S ON OUR HOMEPAGE.
>> Woodruff: MORE THAN 21
MILLION VIEWERS TUNED INTO LAST
NIGHT'S N.C.A.A. MEN'S
CHME.
A HEADY MOMENT FOR UNIVERSITY OF
CONNECTICUT FANS.
BUT ALSO COMING AT A POINT WHEN
SCHOOLS ARE FACING NEW PRESSURES
ABOUT HOW THEY BALANCE COMPETING
INTERESTS AMONG ATHLETICS,
ACADEMICS AND MONEY.
JEFF IS BACK WITH THAT STORY.
>> Brown: MARCH MADNESS,
SPILLING OVER INTO APRIL, A TIME
THEY'LL JOIN THE N.B.A. DRAFT.
>> Brown: WE GET A PAIR OF
PERSPECTIVES ON SOME OF THESE
BIGGER ISSUES THAT ARE BEING
DEBATED.
PATRICK HARKER IS PRESIDENT OF
THE UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE AND A
MEMBER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OF THE N.C.A.A. DIVISION ONE.
AND KEVIN BLACKISTONE, HE IS A
PANELIST FOR E.S.P.N. AND
TEACHES SPORTS JOURNALISM
AT THE UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND
KEVIN BLACKISTONE, LET ME START
WITH YOU.
PUT ASIDE FOR THE MOMENT
SPECIFIC CASES OR SOLUTIONS.
WHAT'S THE OVERALL PROBLEM YOU
SEE IN COLLEGE SPORTS?
>> INEQUITY.
INEQUITY IN MONEY.
IT'S INEQUITY IN POWER.
IT'S INEQUITY IN RESOURCES.
THE RESOURCES ARE WHAT THIS
UNIONIZATION OF NORTHWESTERN
FOOTBALL PLAYERS IS ALL ABOUT.
IT'S REALLY NOT ABOUT
COMPENSATION, BUT IT'S ABOUT
THINGS LIKE HEALTH CARE,
WORKERS' COMPENSATION,
PROTECTION FOR SCHOLARSHIPS
SHOULD THEY BE INJURED AND NO
LONGER ABLE TO PLAY.
MOST PEOPLE IN THIS COUNTRY
DON'T REALIZE THAT SCHOLARSHIPS
ARE ONE-YEAR RENEWABLE CONTRACTS
WITH THE UNIVERSITY STAMPED BY
THE ATHLETIC DEPARTMENT.
SO IF A PLAYER IS HURT AND HE OR
SHE CAN NO LONGER PLAY, THEY CAN
LOSE THEIR SCHOLARSHIP.
SO IT'S REALLY BASIC THINGS LIKE
THAT, AND IT'S REALLY NOT VERY
MUCH ABOUT COMPENSATION IN TERMS
OF HARD DOLLARS.
>> Brown: LET ME ASK PATRICK
HARKER, GENERALLY, FIRST, IS THE
WORD "CRISIS," DO YOU ACCEPT
THAT?
WHAT IS THE SITUATION FOR
COLLEGE SPORTS TODAY?
>> I THINK IT'S A CRISIS IN
LOSING SIGHT OF THE FACT THAT
THE MOST IMPORTANT PART OF THE
PHRASE "STUDENT ATHLETE" IS
"STUDENT."
I SAY THAT NOT JUST AS A
UNIVERSITY PRESIDENT BUT A
FORMER STUDENT ATHLETE.
I'M HERE TODAY BECAUSE ATHLETICS
OPENED DOORS FOR ME.
I'M WORRIED STARTING MIDDLE
SCHOOL THROUGH COLLEGE, WE'VE
LOST SIGHT OF THE FACT THAT
STUDENTS NEED AN EDUCATION TO BE
SUCCESSFUL, EVEN IF THEY HAVE A
PRO CAREER.
THEY'RE NOT GOING TO DO THAT
FOREVER, AND AFTER THEIR CAREER
IS OVER, THEY NEED ANOTHER
CAREER, THEY NEED TO BE
SUCCESSFUL IN SOMETHING ELSE,
AND THEY NEED AN EDUCATION.
>> Brown: PAT HARKER, IS THE
VERY TERM "STUDENT ATHLETE" ONE
WE SHOULD USE OR DISCARD, DO YOU
AGREE?
>> YEAH, BECAUSE IF YOU THINK
ABOUT THE UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE
AND MOST MEMBERS OF NCAA
DIVISION 1, WE USE MONEY ON
ATHLETICS, SUBSTANTIAL SUMS OF
MONEY.
BUT YOU HAVE TO THINK OF IT AS A
SUBSIDY.
WE'RE SUBSIDIZING AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR STUDENTS JUST LIKE IN
THEATER AND MUSIC.
IN THIS CASE, THROUGH ATHLETICS,
TO LEARN THINGS THEY CAN'T IN
THE CLASSROOM AND TO PROVIDE IN
COMMUNITY THE SENSE OF
COMPETITION, CAMARADERIE AND
PRIDE.
BUT IF YOU LOSE SIGHT OF THAT
FACT, THEN I THINK THERE IS A
PROBLEM.
I MEAN, WE LOSE MONEY ON LOTS OF
HI LOSE MONEY ON EVERY STUDENT
THAT COMES TO THE UNIVERSITY IF
THEY'RED BUT WE DO IT
BECAUSE THERE'S A GREATER
PURPOSE, A GREAT EDUCATIONAL
EXPERIENCE.
>> Brown: WHAT DO YOU THINK
ABOUT THE TERM "STUDENT
ATHLETE"?
>> IT SHOULD BE DISCARDED AND IT
IS A COVER.
AS COVER.
IT WAS INVENTED BY WALTER BYERS.
HE INVENTED IT BACK IN THE
'60s TO PROVIDE THE NCAA COVER
FROM HAVING EXACTLY WHAT IS
HAPPENING TODAY HAPPEN THEN, AND
THAT WAS TO HAVE STUDENT
ATHLETES LOOKED AT AS EMPLOYEES.
THE MEMBER INSTITUTIONS AND NCAA
HAD FACE ADD NUMBER OF VERY
SERIOUS LAWSUITS FROM PLAYERS
WHO HAD BEEN CRITICALLY INJURED
ON THE FIELD AND THEY WANTED
THEIR MEMBER INSTITUTIONS TO
TAKE CARE OF THEM AS IF THEY
WERE WHAT THEY ARE AND THAT IS
EMPLOYEES OF THE UNIVERSITY AND
WALTER BYERS EXPLAINS IN HIS
CONFESSION IN THE MID '90s
CALLED UNSPORTSMANLIKE CONDUCT
HOW HE CAME UP WITH THE TERMS
AND WHAT HE MEANT BY IT.
SO THE PHRASE STUDENT ATHLETE IN
THE MEDIA WHICH WE REGURGITATED
HAS GIVEN COVER TO MEMBER
INSTITUTIONS AND COURTS WHEN
PEOPLE TRY TO CHALLENGE THE
NOTION.
>> Brown: PRESIDENT HARKER,
WHEN YOU SAY YOU THINK THE
STUDENT PART OF THAT IS STILL
THE KEY, YOU ARGUE AGAINST, FOR
EXAMPLE, THE IDEA OF UNIONS FOR
COLLEGE ATHLETES.
EXPLAIN WHY YOU THINK THAT WOULD
BE A BAD IDEA.
>> WELL, LOOK, WE LOSE MONEY ON
EVERY SPORT WE OFFER AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE AND EVERY
SCHOOL AT OUR LEVEL.
SO IF WE'RE REQUIRED TO SPEND
MORE MONEY AND WE'RE REQUIRED TO
TAKE OUR EYE OFF THE BALL,
GIVING THESE STUDENTS A REAL
EDUCATION, THEN EVERYBODY LOSES,
AND WE DON'T WANT TO DO THAT.
AGAIN, PERSONALLY, AS A FORMER
STUDENT ATHLETE, WHERE DOORS
OPENED FOR ME BECAUSE OF THAT
EXPERIENCE, I WANT TO MAKE SUREE
SAME OPPORTUNITIES.
>> Brown: ABOUT WHAT PAYING
THEM, COMPENSATING THEM IN ANY
FORM?
IS THAT POSSIBLE?
>> WELL, WE PAY THEM THROUGH
THEIR SCHOLARSHIP TODAY, BUT
ONLY HALF OF OUR STUDENTS ARE ON
SCHOLARSHIP.
MANY, AGAIN -- WE OFTEN THINK
ABOUT MEN'S BASKETBALL AND
FOOTBALL, BUT THERE ARE MANY
STUDENT ATHLETES ON CAMPUS TO
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THIS
OPPORTY SCHOLARSHIPS, BUT
THEY'RE DOING IT FOR SPORT AND
WHAT THEY LEARN.
>> Brown: KEVIN BLACKISTONE,
HE'S MAKING AN IMPORTANT POINT
WE SOMETIMES FORGET.
WE FOCUS ON THESE BIGTIME
PROGRAMS AND BIGTIME SPORTS AND
FORGET ABOUT EVERYTHING ELSE.
>> WELL, RIGHT NOW THERE'S AN
EROSION GOING ON IN COLLEGE
ATHLETICS AND HAS BEEN FOR SOME
TIME.
THE UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE IS
ONE OF THE SCHOOLS THAT IS
SUFFERING THE EROSION AND,
SOONER OR LATER, THERE IS GOING
TO BE, IF THERESREADY,
A CORE OF 50, MAYBE 60 SCHOOLS,
AT LEAST HALF OF WHICH DO MAKE
PROFIT OFF THEIR ATHLETICS WHO
ARE GOING TO BE CONTROLLING THE
SPORT.
SO I THINK, SOONER OR LATER, AS
WE'VE SEEN THROUGH THE FORMATION
OF THE B.C.S. OVER THE YEARS,
WHICH -- AND A NEW FOOTBALL
CONTRACT PLAYOFF WHICH THEY WERE
STILL OPPOSED TO A
HAVE DECIDED TO DO IT FOR
$5.6 BILLION FROM ESPN, I THINK
YOU WILL SEE SCHOOLS START
TO CIRCLE AROUND THE PILE OF
MONEY THAT THEY ARE ABLE TO
GENERATE AND KEEP THAT FOR
THEMSELVES.
>> Brown: WHAT HARM DO YOU SEE
IN THAT SYSTEM?
>> WELL, IF THAT SYSTEM
CONTINUES, I THINK THE HARM IS
GOING TO BE TO THE SCHOOLS THAT
CANNOT PARTICIPATE IN IT, AND WE
ATHLETICS RACE OVER THE AN ARMS
YEARS.
EVERY YEAR, THERE'S ANOTHER VERY
SMALL SCHOOL WHICH PLURCHTION
DOWN A FEW MILLION DOLLARS TO
START UP A FOOTBALL PROGRAM.
WHY?
JUST BECAUSE IT BRINGS MARKETING
AND PUBLIC RELATIONS TO YOUR
UNIVERSITY AND ALSO FROM THE
IDEA THAT MAYBE SOMEHOW YOU CAN
MAKE A BUCK OFF OF THIS.
I THINK THAT THAT'S THE PROBLEM
HERE.
SO A UNION, ONCE AGAIN, REALLY
WHAT THESE KIDS ARE TALKING
ABOUT REALLY IS NOT THE
COMPENSATION, BUT RESOURCES AND
POWER AND A SEAT AT THE TABLE
WITH THE NCAA SO THEY CAN
BARGAIN FOR THEIR OWN RIGHTS.
>> Brown: SO PAT HARKER, YOU
CAN RESPOND TO THAT IN THE LAST
MINUTE.
WHAT WOULD YOU LIKE TO SEE
HAPPEN?
>> FIRST, REMEMBER THE
CONFERENCES KEVIN IS TALKING
ABOUT ARE THE EXCEPTION, NOT THE
RULE.
WE -- UNIVERSITIES LIKE THE
UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE ARE THE
MAJORITY OF DIVISION ONE.
WHAT I WORRY ABOUT IS, IN THIS
CONVERSATION, WE'RE LETTING FIVE
CONFERENCES POTENTIALLY THROUGH
THE MEDIA DRIVE THE DEBATE.
FOR COLLEGES AT OUR LEVEL, I'D
LIKE TO SEE, AS I SAID EARLIER,
A RENEWED FOCUS ON THE STUDENT
ATHLETE, AND THAT MEANS NOT ONLY
THE SUCCESS ON THE FIELD BUT
THEIR SUCCESS IN THE CLASSROOM
TO MAKE SURE THAT THEY CAN GET
THE MAJOR OF CHOICE.
SOMETIMES WE'VE SET THIS UP
WHERE IT'S A LITTLE DIFFICULT TO
DO.
WE HAVE GEOGRAPHICALLY DISPERSED
CONFERENCES WHETHER ON TRAINS OR
PLANES, I THINK WE NEED TO
CONCENTRATE ON GEOGRAPHIC
CONSOLIDATION SO STUDENTS ARE
AWAY FROM CAMPUS SO THEY CAN GET
A DEGREE THAT INVOLVES A LAB OR
A RESEARCH PROJECT.
THAT'S WHAT I DID WHEN I WAS A
STUDENT ATHLETE AND LED ME TO
THE CAREER I HAVE TODAY.
>> Brown: PATRICK HARKER,
PRESIDENT OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
DELAWARE, KEVIN BLACKISTONE.
THANK YOU BOTH VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
GOVERNMENT FORCES IN UKRAINE
REGAINED CONTROL OF A REGIONAL
HEADQUARTERS IN ONE EASTERN
CITY.
PRO-RUSSIAN SEPARATISTS WERE
HOLDING OUT IN TWO OTHER CITIES.
SEARCH CREWS IN THE INDIAN OCEAN
FAILED TO PICK UP MORE
UNDERWATER PINGS FROM A
MALAYSIAN JETLINER, ONE MONTH
AFTER IT DISAPPEARED.
AND PRESIDENT OBAMA TOOK
EXECUTION ACTIONS TO PRESS THE
CAUSE OF EQUAL PAY FOR WOMEN.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE RIGHT
NOW, WE HAVE A FOLLOW-UP TO OUR
STORY ON THE FIGHT WITHIN THE
AIR FORCE OVER THE RETIRING OF
THE A-10 WARTHOG.
WHAT DO THE MEN WHO CALL IN
AIR STRIKES THINK ABOUT THE
DECISION?
WE HAVE THEIR REACTION ON OUR
WORLD PAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
ON WEDNESDAY, A LOOK AT WHAT HAS
AND HASN'T CHANGED FOR
BANGLADESH'S GARMENT INDUSTRY,
ONE YEAR AFTER A FACTORY
COLLAPSED, KILLING MORE THAN
1,000 WORKERS.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.